---
title: The Race
description: A bit of weekend's thoughts
layout: post
---

Ever you wonder why there are so much programing languages or frameworks exists, and feel frustrated that your life is too short to learn all of them ? yep, I'm talking about the technology race.

Unlike most of other industries, technology is a continuously evolving area. That's one of the reasons I love it, and also one of the reasons my health hates it. You spend months to master a framework; but suddenly another appears and becomes the new standard in the industry. We are always in a race to keep up with all the 'hot stuff' technology. But whom we are racing with? Answer: millions of programmers working days and nights out there.

Back to 2000s, PHP was really dominating web-programming area (or even now). However, in 2005/2006, Ruby on Rails was released and began to gain popularity. At this moment, it became one of the most famous frameworks in the world. Who created Rails ? A web company called [37signals](http://37signals.com/) initially used Rails as a part of their products. They built Rails just to make their work easier, to serve themselves. Yes if a company alone can change the whole industry, how can we race with millions?

<i>Don’t race by your foots, race with a car</i>

In this current startup bubble, we tend to chase after new technologies and neglect the importance of basics knowledge. We often use a framework without understanding what is under all of its magic. During my last internship at Viki, I was lucky enough to join and observe some full-time interviews there. I can still remember a particular guy having an interview in their Platform team. He wrote in his CV that he had used all kinds of fancy frameworks to build some famous websites; yet could not answer when being asked "What is a linked list ?". Certainly, he did not get the job.

Sometimes, we cannot realize our terrible lack in basic Computer Science knowledge. 

Most of my CS friends are likely to know Git. However, many of them (well, including me :p) misunderstand that Git and [GitHub](http://github.com) are one, that Git is exclusively used for GitHub. They don’t know that we can setup Git repo in any remote machine, and the code will magically appear after we push from our local.

I believe that by deeply understanding all CS basics, we can accelerate mastering any new technology much faster. Recently, I came across [this article](http://venturebeat.com/2013/09/11/peter-thiel-promised-flying-cars-instead-we-got-caffeine-spray/#Dkb43bBoIXhyj30F.99). In my opinion, blindly dropping out is not a good idea. We may miss some opportunities while sitting at universities, but on the other hand we also can gain so much skill/knowledge that turn out to be very useful for later career. Of course, we have extremely successful examples of dropping out: Bill Gates, Steve Job or Mark Zuckerberg. But what's the rate? They are literally ones in billions.

So stay at school, learn as much as you can. Learn to make a wheel, create an engine, and combine them to make your own car. Then back to the race with much more advantages.

<small><i>From a guy who is being pissed off by his rusty Rails skill.</i></small>