---
title: CS3216 First Blog
layout: post
---

Writing this very first blog while watching Orange vs Tongfu during [Dota 2 The International](http://dota2.com), it's kinda hard <s>and sad</s> to realize how fast how my summer vacation past with an amazing internship at [Viki](http://viki.com) and some other memorable events. Nevertheless, another exciting semester is coming with CS3216 "Software Development on Evolving Platforms" as my focus. To tell the truth, this is the 3rd Software Engineering course I've taken so far. However, I think there will still be a lot to learn and expect from the course. CS2103T taught me several entry-level knowledge in the field such as basic architectures, some common principals and practice. CS3217 is much about iOS and coding focused. Unlike these previous courses, the next CS3216 will be product oriented, which means students are expected to build only distinct and innovative applications. And that's everything Software Engineering is about, well at least for me. Besides, the fact that there will be several non-SoC students in the class is kinda cool.

Back to the main topic of this blog, "What you hope to learn in CS3216", I can list a few:

*   <i>How to think outside of the box and have a great product idea</i></br>
    I really want to learn <s>and steal</s> from others' ideas of new applications. I am always amazed when I hear how people brainstormed the idea behind of a famous product. The diversity of students in CS3216 is a big plus on this point.
*   <i>Product development</i></br>
    I am a strong believer of "Good coders alone cannot make a great product". How to make your product shine among hundred of similar ones ? How to get to the audience ? This kind of questions always make me curious ..
*   <i>Web/Facebook development</i></br>
    I've built a desktop app for CS2103T, an iOS app for CS3217, but Facebook platform is still quite new to me. It is undeniable that Facebook is dominating the social network field, and with more than 1 billion of users this platform is very worth to try on.
*   <i>Work as a team</i></br>
    I always find it's fun to work in a team rather than working alone. And clearly, teamwork is an essential skill for every software engineer because it's hard to imagine a good product is developed solely. During CS3216, I hope I can improve my ability as a teamplayer, to work effectively as a team with other people, especially with non-geek students.

That's it for the first blog! I've started this blog in the morning and now is around 10pm. Feel like my level of procrastination is currently above 9000 thanks to the vacation :( . LOL. But seriously need to get rid of it soon because I know all the pain, all the nighters of CS3217 are coming back with CS3216. Wish me luck then!



